---
title: Radicle Community Calls
---

import Collapse from '@site/src/components/Collapse'

On the last Wednesday of every month, the Radicle project hosts a **Radicle Community Call**. Each Core Team is
responsible for sending one team member to present a progress update on what they are working on. This is an opportunity
for our community to see what's happening within the project.

## Notes &amp; recordings

This is a collection of all monthly Community Call notes that are currently being curated by our Governance Facilitator,
Shelby. These notes can be posted with each video and should include timestamps to relevant sections of the video. Links
to all recordings are included under each month. A full collection video recordings of our Community Calls can be found
on our [YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLUUjDC9sOrplFcqQxhgQGKRXKMSqJ_wOZ) playlist.

### 2023

<Collapse title="January Community Call" date="25 January 2023">

ğŸ“¹ [Link to call recording](https://youtu.be/lsm8JLaGJUM)!

Thanks for joining this monthâ€™s community call! Below is a collection of all written updates from each core team shared in the call. 

ğŸª„Â Clients Update (coming soon)

â˜”Â [Funding & Drips Community Update](https://radicle.community/t/drips-team-community-update-january-2023/3196)

ğŸºÂ [Marketing Update](https://radicle.community/t/marketing-team-community-update-january-2023/3207)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-january-2023/3204)

ğŸ’¸Â [Radicle Grants Program Update](https://radicle.community/t/grants-community-update-january-2022/3205)
    
</Collapse>
    
<Collapse title="February Community Call" date="1 March 2023">

ğŸ“¹ [Link to call recording](https://youtu.be/WcZbqph_WA4)!

Thanks for joining this monthâ€™s community call! Below is a collection of all written updates from each core team shared in the call. 

â„¹ï¸ If you have not let, please read these two important community-wide updates: 
[An Evolution of Radicleâ€™s Brand(s)](https://radicle.community/t/an-evolution-of-radicle-s-brand-s/3224)
[An Evolution of Radicleâ€™s Orgs](https://radicle.community/t/org-design-update-an-evolution-of-radicle-s-org-s/3248)

**Community Call Update**

We will transition to a quarterly **DAO Community Call**, that features updates from all Orgs. The goal of this quarterly call is to be a checkpoint between the DAO and its Orgs, while giving the RadicleDAO community a look into whatâ€™s happening in the ecosystem. Orgs can choose to host their own monthly community calls moving forward.

This call will happen at the end of every quarter (last week of March, June, September, and December [before holidays]). The first quarterly call will be held onÂ **March 29th, in replacement of our monthly community call.**

**Team Updates**

ğŸª„Â [Clients Update](https://radicle.community/t/clients-community-update-february-2023/3264) 

- [Radicle Interface](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-interface/#deployments)

â˜”Â [Drips Update](https://radicle.community/t/drips-team-community-update-february-2023/3262)

ğŸºÂ Marketing Update - see [Evolution of Radicleâ€™s Brand(s)](https://radicle.community/t/an-evolution-of-radicle-s-brand-s/3224) post

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-february-2023/3263/2)

ğŸ’¸Â [Radicle Grants Program Update](https://radicle.community/t/grants-community-update-february-2023/3261)
    
</Collapse>
    
<Collapse title="Q2 2023 Community Call" date="5 April 2023">

â„¹ï¸ This is a collection of brief notes & important links that were shared during the Q2 2023 Community Call. The long-term structure and record keeping format of this call is still TBD. The Governance Committee has taken care of notes for this call.

ğŸ“¹ [Call recording](https://youtu.be/zFRkqmo7t2o)

#### **Monthly Calls to Quarterly Calls** (01:00)

We  have transitioned from monthly Community Calls to a quarterly cadence. The purpose of Quarterly Calls is to give Orgs a touchpoint with each other and give the DAO a touchpoint with its Orgs. These calls will be an opportunity to sync and share important ecosystem-wide updates and provide higher-level announcements & demos. 

The exact format for these calls going forward still TBD, but all Orgs & Org Committees will have a chance to present updates. We are planning to continue requiring a written update from each Org to post to the forum for a written record of quarterly updates.

#### **DAO Transition & Org Shift Review** (05:20)

- [DAO Shift â€” Tenerife Offsite 2023](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/1xukbLOIgy_5D0XOAe3-8piRl6nV5a252K36Af2tRh-k/edit?usp=sharing)
- [A Path to Increasing Decentralization within Radicle](https://radicle.community/t/the-path-to-increasing-decentralization-within-radicle/2417)
- [The Next Phase of the RadicleDAO](https://radicle.community/t/the-next-phase-of-the-radicledao/2776)
- [An Evolution of Radicleâ€™s Orgs](https://radicle.community/t/org-design-update-an-evolution-of-radicle-s-org-s/3248/9)
- [[Formal Review] Start the Foundation Org Proposal](https://radicle.community/t/formal-review-start-the-foundation-org/3280/7)

#### **Org Presentations**

â„¹ï¸ Each Org presented their proposals to establish their Orgs as independent projects within the DAO. These proposals include key insights into the purpose of each Org, their annual strategy & quarterly objectives, the structure of their Org, communication channels and budget. 

The notes include below are only a few callouts of important mentions or questions asked. Please see the proposals for full detail.

**Radicle Org (10:55)**

- [Radicle Org Proposal](https://radicle.community/t/discussion-radicle-org-proposal-2023/3288)
- [Heartwood Radicle repo](https://app.radicle.xyz/seeds/seed.radicle.xyz/rad:z3gqcJUoA1n9HaHKufZs5FCSGazv5)
- (24:23) Currently Hiring: 2 engineers (probably 1 on front end & 1 on protocol) & 1 designer (either UX or visual).
- Radicle Calls: Planning on doing monthly calls open to the public. Details coming soon.
- (25:24) Reporting on Success Metrics: Planning to track monthly/quarterly metrics to monitor growth while providing analysis and context around growth or lack there of of these metrics. These will be shared publicly, but still TBD as to where and how - probably during Quarterly Community Calls.
- Planning to create a corporate entity based in Switzerland

**Drips Org (29:11)**

- [Drips Org Proposal](https://radicle.community/t/discussion-drips-org-proposal-2023/3289)
- V2 contracts soft launch on mainnet - bigger public announcement coming Q2!
- Not planning to grow team this year. Believe in current team to execute on initiatives.
- (49:00) Drips Calls: Host weekly calls on Discord that anyone can join. They will also probably continue writing monthly updates on the forum.
- (47:10) Reporting on Success Metrics: Planning to create a public dashboard where most metrics can be viewable in real time. Where this will be shared still TBD. Any service reviews will be reported during the Quarterly Community Calls
- Establishing a non-for-profit association in CH, where all core contributors can become members

**Grants Org (51:42)**

- [Grants Org Proposal](https://radicle.community/t/discussion-grants-org-proposal-2023/3290)
- (1:01:02) This Org does not have a monthly budget like other Orgs as they donâ€™t have a regular cadence of grants.
- Currently not planning to create an entity

**Foundation Org (1:02:46)**

- [Foundation Org Proposal](https://radicle.community/t/formal-review-start-the-foundation-org/3280/7) - This proposal has already been submitted to governance and has been approved. See final voting results [here](https://boardroom.io/radicle/proposal/cHJvcG9zYWw6cmFkaWNsZTpvbmNoYWluOjEz).
- Home of three committees (Governance, Marketing & Operations) that service the DAO & its Orgs
- Will use existing Swiss Foundation entity as entity structure

#### Other Announcements

- A [monthly voting cycle](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-governance/blob/main/manual.md#proposal-cycles) has been initiated as of April 1. The open Org proposals will be the first to go through this new voting cycle, meaning they will move to Formal Review on the 3rd Monday of this month (17th) and be submitted to governance on the 4th Monday (24th).
- Proposal Reviews: These Proposal Review calls will replace the monthly governance calls and will take place on the 2nd Wednesday of each month. These calls will solely focus on discussing open proposals in that cycle and will be a time for proposal authors to answer questions from the community. The first Proposal Review call will be held on **April 12th** - [join here](https://discord.gg/pPtCn8ZY?event=1092407140897001482)!

</Collapse>

### 2022

<Collapse title="January Community Call" date="26 January 2022">

ğŸ“¹ There is unfortunately NO RECORDING for this monthâ€™s call. ğŸ˜¥

**General:**

A few Radicle folks (Abbey, Nas & Andrew for example) will be at ETH Denver!! Reach out in the Community channel on Discord if you will also be there!

ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team:**

No presentation from the Link team this week, but all updates can be found [here](https://radicle.community/t/link-road-plan-22/2658)!

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream:**

Thomas announced updates for Patches with Upstream, replication, a new CLI that improves the patch patch experience and fixing other bugs. You can find the full list of updates here! A reminder that they are still looking for a Product Owner - full info & application instructions areÂ  outlined [here](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-looking-for-product-owner/2638).

ğŸª„Â **Alt-Clients:**

Alexis demonstrated the new CLI updates, Radicle client services and Radicle Cloud. They are working on full integration with the web for browsing as well as pier browsing.

ğŸ’§Â **Drips:**

Drips is LIVE!!! If you havenâ€™t checked it out yet -Â  [click here](https://drips.radicle.network/). The team [announced Drips](https://twitter.com/dripsnetwork/status/1483803076062593029) last week. For a full list of updates from the Drips team check out [this link](https://radicle.community/t/drips-team-january-26th-2022-community-update/2662). To stay up to date on all things Drips - follow [Drips on Twitter](https://twitter.com/dripsnetwork).

ğŸ¤**Community & Governance:**

Abbey discussed some of the restructuring that will happen to the Community & Governance team for 2022. Some of the notable items include:

- Cleaning up and improve accessibility of public resources.
- Bringing on more (wo)man power and introducing new Discord roles to facilitate a better community experience.
- Focus on transition for the DAO - plan for 2022 and expanding decentralization coming soon!
- Community delegates program
- Support emergence of operations of community-led working groups e.g. Radicle Grants Program, treasury management in the future
- Support community associate operations and growth through marketing and partnerships

Shelby discussed the new delegation process and platform that the Governance WG has been working on. This process allows community members to announce themselves as delegates and represent their community in the Radicle governance process. The platform will be a one-stop-shop with all active delegate profiles, making it easy for other community members to find folks to delegate to.

The docs are ready to go but need the Code of Conduct to be cleared before sharing. This will hopefully be live early next week (KW5)!!

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="February Community Call" date="23 February 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z_e2PBlbnts&list=PLUUjDC9sOrplFcqQxhgQGKRXKMSqJ_wOZ&index=9)

ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team:**

Key updates from the Link team include implementing solution to branch tracking ([see RFC](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-link/blob/master/docs/rfc/0699-tracking-storage.adoc#batch-tracking)), the use of the tracking figuration was integrated into replication, a new standalone MVPeer, and update on [RFC 701](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-link/blob/master/docs/rfc/0701-mutual-synchronisation.adoc), and improvements to CI builds. Will focus on application architecture work over next weeks. Full notes on all Link updates can be found [here](https://radicle.community/t/link-february-2022-community-update/2739).

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream:**

Their search for a new Product Owner is over! Julien introduced Kai (Discord: Kaidao#3125) who will be helping the Upstream team create a long-term product roadmap and workstreams. He also discussed improvements to their patches feature and efforts towards making sure Upstream is compatible with what the alt-clients team is shipping.

ğŸ›¶Â **Workstream:**

Following some research Nassar had done which showed interest of DAOs looking for a way to pay for grants and contributions in a native web3 way, the Workstream team has started working on a MVP to make it possible. Worksteam will be built on top of the Drips protocol initially. You can follow their journey in the #work-streams Discord channel.

ğŸª„Â **Alt-Clients:**

Alexis showed new UI updates including to the peer selector and commit view. They also updatedÂ  ENS registration views to work with any ENS name (and not with just Radicle names) and introduced three new seeds nodes that they will be launching with. The CLI is ready to be used for collaboration. Alexis also demonstrated some new commands they added and answered questions regarding the definition of â€œdelegatesâ€ and Seed IDs.

ğŸ’§Â **Drips:**

Drips has survived its first month live! The last month has been focused on gathering feedback from early users and launching a partnership with Polygon. Andrew also met with a few folks excited to integrate drips at ETH Denver. There is currently an SDK being built to allow others to build off of Drips. There was a broader discussion about how Radicle could use Drips to stream funds from the DAO to fund projects and contributions - potential dog-fooding via Radicle Grants.Â  If you havenâ€™t yet follow [Drips on Twitter](https://twitter.com/dripsnetwork) to stay up to date with new developments!

ğŸ’¸Â **Grants:**

Bordumb continued the dog-fooding discussion from the Drips presentation and added that it might be good to wait until we add options besides ERC20 tokens to make it more compatible with other networks. He reminded the teams that a lot of work can be potentially handed off to the Grants Program in the form of RFPs. He wants to continue collecting ideas for future RFPs over the coming weeks.

ğŸ¤Â **Community & Governance:**

Abbey & Nas were unable to make the call but Abbey provided a written update on the Community side that can be found here (link coming soon).

Shelby briefly discussed the Snapshot results of the two proposals in the Formal Review stage. Both the [removing name registration fee](https://radicle.community/t/formal-review-v2-remove-name-registration-fee/2720/6) and [Radicle Ecosystem Growth Fund](https://radicle.community/t/formal-review-radicle-ecosystem-growth-fund-egf/2721/4) proposals passed to move on to the next and final stage of the governance process. These should be ready and up for an on-chain vote next week. The Governance WG will be working on doing some stakeholder mapping and outreach to increase participation in governance by encouraging either direct participation or through delegation. With the launch of the [Active Delegate Platform](https://www.notion.so/02bd9d2ca1b64e04bc92dc93ff823afb) last month it is now easier than ever to find community delegates for any $RAD holder to delegate to if they are unable/do not want to participate in voting on proposals directly.

ğŸ‘¾Â **Misc:**

We are planning a casual dinner for the Radicle community in Berlin on March 17th. We will send around details on how to say if you would like to participate (most likely on Discord) soon so we can coordinate numbers. There are also quite a few folks planning on attending ETH Amsterdam in April. 

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="March Community Call" date="30 March 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://youtu.be/ASFUlw7ylSI)

ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team:**

Find the full list of written updates from the Link team [here](https://radicle.community/t/link-march-2022-community-update/2779). Fintan announces that replication is almost over the finish line. He also runs through updates on some branding changes, the Git Server, and a few housekeeping announcements. They also launched Chatz - a new home for all protocol discussions with the Link Team to avoid the noise of patch contributions. You can subscribe [here](https://lists.sr.ht/~radicle-link/discuss)!

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream:**

Find the full list of written updates from Upstream [here](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-march-2022-community-update/2783). Kai explains how the Upstream Team will be focusing on onboarding DAOs to start using Upstream for their code collaboration. They want to smooth out remaining kinks to make sure the MVP is stable and expand issue management features. See full list of features and next steps in the link above.

ğŸª„Â **Alt-Clients:**

Since the last call, both the CLI & [https://radicle.network](https://radicle.network/) have launched and have been receiving positive feedback so far. Cloudhead walks through some exciting new projects they are working on, including adding Radicle Governance to the CLI, WalletConnect support, Improved rad push behavior and more! Important web updates include verified commits, better markdown support, code activity graphs. See video for demo of what this all looks like.

ğŸ’§Â **Drips:**

Find the full list of written updates from the Drips team [here](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-march-2022/2784). Andrew runs through protocol updates, their upcoming audit, and more teams starting to use or think about using Drips for various use-cases. Radicle also ran an Ecosystem Round in [Gitcoin Grants Round 13](https://mobile.twitter.com/gitcoin/status/1499517512878223360) which distributing $25k to Gitcoin grantees to use drips.network to split funds with other grantees.

ğŸ›¶Â **Workstream:**

Julian demoed initial designs for the explore and landing pages and showed what searching for and supporting different grants or new rolls will look like. The team is currently looking for someone to help out with the front-end side of the project (see video for details). Please reach out in the work-streams channel on Discord if you have any leads!

ğŸš€Â **Growth:**

Find the full list of written updates from the Growth team [here](https://radicle.community/t/growth-cu-march-2022-community-update/2781). Main highlights from the Growth team this past month include passing the [Ecosystem Growth Fund (EGF)](https://gov.radicle.network/#/proposals/radicle/7) through the on-chain governance process, on-boarding two new members to the team, and exploring new funding-based collaborations with partners. They continue to work on product and protocol details with drips, and want to start a beta group of DAOs that will work closely with the product teams to help test and guide on development.

ğŸ¤Â **Community & Governance:**

Find the full list of written updates from the Community & Governance team [here](https://radicle.community/t/30-3-22-community-governance-team-update/2780). Abbey lays out a few objectives for 2022 and announces the release of her new forum post laying out the transition to the RadicleDAO and corresponding workstreams. We highly recommend you read this ([SEE HERE!](https://radicle.community/t/the-next-phase-of-the-radicledao/2776)) A few other highlights include passing two proposals through on-chain governance, launched a huge outreach project with core Radicle contributors as well as numerous $RAD holders to remind everyone of the importance of governance participation/delegation - especially as we move forward with the DAO. They also launched a new newsletter - Radicle Governance Updates. This is a bi-weekly newsletter that will include links to current and upcoming active proposals, Governance team updates and exciting things to keep an eye out for in coming weeks. [Subscribe here](http://bit.ly/3trPqXA)!

ğŸ’¸Â **Grants:**

Boredom mentioned two new grants that are being funded. One has to do with [IDE Plugins](https://radicle.community/t/application-radicle-ide-plugins-ux-design/2728) and the other is around standardization of metadata. He also wants to start thinking about how to use grants as a potential recruiting tool. Listen in for more context there.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="April Community Call" date="27 April 2022">


ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://youtu.be/ZbZ_5AlsXeo)

ğŸ›¶Â **Workstreams**

Find the full list of written updates from the Workstreams team [here](https://radicle.community/t/workstreams-community-update-april-2022/2819). Julian welcomed Jason (Discord: json#5962) and shared the teamâ€™s mission statement and walked through the high level next steps which include releasing an initial prototype, set up fund streaming (via Drips), and exploring ways to distribute data ownership to users. They hope to have a demo ready for the next call! They are also looking for name recommendations - so send your best to the #work-streams channel on [Discord](https://discord.gg/dZK4TxaU2v).

ğŸ”—Â **Link Team**

Fintan will be sharing a full list of updates from Link on [Discourse](https://radicle.community/c/development-discussion/9) soon. He mentions a few GIt and patch updates, and announces that the Link team will start looking for folks to add to the team! Official job posting should be coming soon, but reach out on Discord if you or anyone you know is interested.

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream**

Find the full list of written updates from the Upstream team [here](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-community-update-april-2022/2816). Rudolfs ran through priorities for the MVP launch including push/pull & p2p compatibility, project cloning, and patch collaboration. Check out the latest release here! They also launched a new onboarding flow and goals for next month which include adding commenting, improving organization discovery, issue management features, ethereum integration, gather user feedback and complete a competitive analysis roadmap. He also shared the design system links: [Design System README](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-upstream/blob/main/design-system/README.md), [Radicle Design System primitives](https://radicle-dev.github.io/radicle-upstream/).

ğŸª„Â **Alt-Clients**

Sebastian and Erik demoed new patch updates. You can now sync a patch to the seed and see updated patch on web interface. There is also a new patch tab where you can connect an ETH address and see all seed nodes that address is logged into. If you havenâ€™t seen it yet, there is a nifty Onboarding docs for Upstream/patches that can be found [here](https://www.notion.so/Onboarding-Docs-ebf2b8a25e7a4ca98a626825e1a6f33c).

ğŸ’§Â **Drips**

Find the full list of written updates from the Drips team [here](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-april-2022/2817). They have been hacking away on adding new features and finalizing the design before doing any code freezes. They are working on releasing a new version of the app and preparing for a security audit that they hope to complete in 2-3 weeks. They are getting close to being done with the Drips SDK and looking for early users. On the ecosystem side, there was a team hacking at ETH Amsterdam on integrating drips into the Radicle CLI ([see submission here](https://showcase.ethglobal.com/ethamsterdam/rad-drip-gx4jr)), the [Proposal Inverter](https://radicle.community/t/grant-application-dogfooding-the-proposal-inverter/2806/7) project is moving forward building on Drips and Workstreams is already building there. There was also a discussion around start/stop feature of Drips.

ğŸš€Â **Growth** 

Find the full list of written updates from the Growth team [here](https://radicle.community/t/growth-cu-april-2022-community-update/2818). They have been busy building out strategy for the EGF and reviewing their first two proposals. They have building a beta group of DAOs that will help test using Upstream and drips for their projects. Have continued to onboard Lukas and Shannon to the team and explore new partnerships and potential token swaps with some community dev & product DAOs. They are focusing on piercing together the narrative for both DAO and product for better contributor on-boarding going forward.

ğŸ’¸Â **Grants**

Bordumb mentioned he would be interested in being an early user for Workstreams to test out in Grants. He will talking to two teams who worked on Drips integration/use cases at the ETH Amsterdam Hackathon this week that are interested in applying for grants. He also shared he would like to explore retroactively funding folks who have made quality video or blog tutorials on how to use Radicle products.

ğŸ¤Â **Community & Governance**

Devconnect was a success for the Radicle team! Quite a few core contributors hosted talks at various events, got to meet new community members and even hosted an informal core contributor offsite (notes for these session will be shared online soon!). We are hoping to have another gathering like this but with more folks from the broader community during ETHCC in July and more regularly going forward. Abbey announced two new job postings - [Community & Events Coordinator](https://www.notion.so/Community-Events-Coordinator-c5cb998b2cac47d9bbada807a2eb80cf) & [Comms Manager](https://www.notion.so/Comms-Manager-e1e17ac70be74b5e9d4ada19a8e399b6). On the governance side, we will be diving head first into the transition to the DAO and pumping out temperature checks for each workstream within the coming weeks. Keep an eye out for these and leave thoughts/comments/questions so we can have a thorough discussion before moving forward.

ğŸ“¢Â Community Call Out:

Yorgos is looking for â€œIntelliJ/PhpStorm/PyCharm/Rider/GoLand/RubyMine/WebStorm/etc.â€ users to help test/shape the user eXperience of that new Integrated Development Environment (IDE) plugin they are working on with funding from a Radicle Grant.

Whatâ€™s required to participate:

- (optional - if you don't know about Radicle) Read through some introduction material to help you understand more about it and help you decide if youâ€™re interested. You can try the [Official FAQ](https://docs.radicle.community/understanding-radicle/faq), or this [tweetstorm](https://twitter.com/odyslam_/status/1499340092564918275).
- If youâ€™re still interested, fill in an (anonymous) questionnaire [here](https://research.typeform.com/to/cjE4J0rc).
- If youâ€™re still interested, you can book a (30min) slot at the final step of the questionnaire above.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="May Community Call" date="25 May 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VNm-gnVRQnI&list=PLUUjDC9sOrplFcqQxhgQGKRXKMSqJ_wOZ&index=10)

ğŸ”—Â [Link Updates](https://radicle.community/t/link-may-2022-community-update/2856)

ğŸŒˆÂ [Upstream Updates](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-may-2022-community-update/2858)

ğŸª„Â [Alt-clients updates](https://radicle.community/t/alt-clients-may-2022-community-update/2857)

ğŸ’§[Drips Updates](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-may-2022/2859)

ğŸ›¶Â **Workstreams**

Jason demoed the Workstreams prototype the team has been working on that includes a Drips network integration. Next steps are going to be finalizing the Drips interaction, launching internal testing and looking for ways to further integrate into the Radicle stack. Jason answered a lot of great questions, including â€œwhat happens if you need to stop drip?â€ and â€œwhat happens if the grantee doesnâ€™t deliver?â€

ğŸš€Â [Growth Updates](https://radicle.community/t/growth-may-2022-update/2861)

- [Feedback tracker link](https://www.notion.so/Upstream-feedback-tracker-2a76bec51e5e454ea12768e2b99a7869)
- [Pipeline link](https://www.notion.so/d265eb54c8874415a247e8387a1792b9)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-may-2022-community-update/2860)

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="June Community Call" date="29 June 2022">

ğŸ“¹ There is unfortunately no recording for this monthâ€™s call due to technical difficulties ğŸ˜¥

Thank you for watching our June community call! Most of the working groups have started posting written updates each month to present in these calls. The updates links or notes from each group can be found below.

ğŸ”—Â [Link Updates](https://radicle.community/t/link-june-2022-community-update/2907)

ğŸŒˆÂ [Upstream Updates](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-june-2022-community-update/2910)

- ğŸª„Â Alt-Clients Updates
    - Focus over last month:
        - Collaborative objects: integration on web and CLI
        - Issues and patches
        - Slackcoder joining for 3 months to help with CLI and cogs
        - V0.6.0 of CLI released
            - Make changes to identity
            - Retroactive reward tool based on commit signatures
    - Coming soon:
        - New commands coming for patches. Testing amongst team to smooth out rough edges but will be out soon.
        - replication V3 integration (link-clone, link-sync)
        - More work on patches and issues
        - TUI

ğŸ’§[Drips Updates](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-june-2022/2904)

- ğŸ›¶Workstream Updates:
    - Focus last month:
        - Finalized Drips interactions
        - Switch to Drips SDK v0.1
        - Mainnet support
        - WalletConnect setup
        - History view
        - New unified Workstream card
    - From Demo:
        - Visual updates: see more clearly who is streaming to who, what project is active or out of funds
        - Topping up: when topping up, window shows how long stream will run depending on how much you add
        - History view: overview of streams to all accounts. Downloadable formats of transaction history available
    - Next steps:
        - Getting ready for internal testing
        - Mobile layout
        - Strategy workshop with foundation in coming weeks
        - Working with bordumb to run radical grants on Workstreams
        - Proposals

ğŸš€Â [Growth Updates](https://radicle.community/t/growth-community-update-june-2022/2906)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Updates](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-june-2022/2909)

- ğŸ’¸Â Grants Updates:
    - [Radicle IDE Plugins - UX Design](https://radicle.community/t/application-radicle-ide-plugins-ux-design/2728/23) - The team continues to work through their second milestone!
    - [Otterspace Soulbound Contributor Badges](https://radicle.community/t/otterspace-soulbound-contributor-badges-for-daos-grant-application/2868/4) - This proposal is waiting to be voted on but the team has already started working on delivering milestone 1.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="July Community Call" date="27 July 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://youtu.be/CO1zGiYJwHk)

ğŸ”—Â [Link](https://radicle.community/t/link-july-2022-community-update/2955) - growing Link & Paris offsite development focus takeaways (Sorry Fintan for missing your updates in the recording! ğŸ˜¥Â )

ğŸŒˆÂ [Upstream](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-july-2022-community-update/2962) - sunsetting Upstream :(

ğŸª„Â [Alt-Clients](https://radicle.community/t/alt-clients-july-2022-community-update/2969) 

ğŸ’§[Drips](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-july-2022/2956) - SDK updates, product research & new landing pages - oh my!

ğŸ›¶Â [Workstreams](https://radicle.community/t/workstreams-community-update-july-2022/2960) - Gnosis Safe integration

ğŸš€Â [Growth](https://radicle.community/t/growth-cu-july-community-update/2957) - new hires and big expansion goals (e.g. workshops, hackathons, podcasts!)!

ğŸ¤Â Community & Governance - Paris Offsite & Org Design Updates (POST COMING SOON!)

ğŸ’¸Â [Grants](https://radicle.community/t/grants-wave-1-learnings-future-plans/2958) - wave 1 analysis & learnings for wave 2!

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="August Community Call" date="31 August 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://youtu.be/03HPb2w3DZI)

The call agenda looks a little different this month given a big org restructuring announcement. Check out the recording (starting at 32:30) for all of the details!

ğŸª„Â [Alt-clients](https://radicle.community/t/alt-clients-community-update-august-2022/3024)

ğŸš€Â [Growth](https://radicle.community/t/growth-update-august-2022/3023)

ğŸ’§Â [Drips](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-august-2022/3025)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance](https://www.notion.so/Community-Call-Notes-Recordings-a429c8564f1045a1ac2782fcaf79a7fb)

ğŸ”—Â [Link](https://www.notion.so/Community-Call-Notes-Recordings-a429c8564f1045a1ac2782fcaf79a7fb)

â˜”[New Core Team: Radicle Funding](https://www.notion.so/Community-Call-Notes-Recordings-a429c8564f1045a1ac2782fcaf79a7fb)

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="September Community Call" date="28 September 2022">

ğŸ“¹ There is sadly no recording from this monthâ€™s call due to technical difficulties ğŸ’”

The call agenda looks very different this month given team restructuring! Check out these posts ([New Core Team - Funding](https://radicle.community/t/new-core-team-radicle-funding/3021), [Alt-clients August Community Update](https://radicle.community/t/alt-clients-community-update-august-2022/3024)) or last monthâ€™s recording (starting at 32:30) for all of the details!

ğŸª„Â [Clients Update](https://radicle.community/t/clients-community-update-september-2022/3065)

â˜”Â [Funding & Drips Community Update](https://radicle.community/t/funding-drips-community-update-september-2022/3064)

ğŸš€Â [Growth Update](https://radicle.community/t/growth-september-2022-update/3061)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-september-2022/3066)

ğŸ’¸Â [Grants Program Continuation Proposal](https://radicle.community/t/discussion-radicle-grants-program-continuation/3019)

- The Formal Review/Snapshot poll will be up latest on **Monday, October 3rd**. As this proposal does not require any on-chain executions, if the Snapshot poll is passed, the proposal will be considered fully approved by the community.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="October Community Call" date="26 October 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=e5EzY_Z5bhU&list=PLUUjDC9sOrplFcqQxhgQGKRXKMSqJ_wOZ&index=13&t=18s)

Thanks for joining this monthâ€™s community call! Below is a collection of all written updates from each core team shared in the call. 

ğŸª„Â [Clients Update](https://radicle.community/t/clients-community-update-october-2022/3097)

â˜”Â [Funding & Drips Community Update](https://radicle.community/t/funding-drips-community-update-october-2022/3094/2)

ğŸš€Â [Growth Update](https://radicle.community/t/growth-community-update-october-2022/3095)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-october-2022/3098)

ğŸ’¸Â [Radicle Grants Program Update](https://radicle.community/t/grants-community-update-september-2022/3096)

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="November Community Call" date="30 November 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [Link to call recording](https://youtu.be/8Jj65PBV5K4)

Thanks for joining this monthâ€™s community call! Below is a collection of all written updates from each core team shared in the call. 

ğŸª„Â [Clients Update](https://radicle.community/t/clients-community-update-november-2022/3141)

â˜”Â [Funding & Drips Community Update](https://radicle.community/t/funding-drips-community-update-november-2022/3134)

ğŸš€Â Growth Update (coming soon) - [EGF Retrospective](https://radicle.community/t/ecosystem-growth-fund-retrospective/3131/4)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-november-2022/3137)

ğŸ’¸Â [Radicle Grants Program Update](https://radicle.community/t/grants-community-update-november-2022/3138)

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="December Community Call" date="4 January 2023">

ğŸ“¹ [Link to call recording](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=gME0CNpmEec&list=PLUUjDC9sOrplFcqQxhgQGKRXKMSqJ_wOZ&index=15&t=2s)!

Thanks for joining this monthâ€™s community call! Below is a collection of all written updates from each core team shared in the call. 

ğŸª„Â Clients Update (coming soon)

â˜”Â [Funding & Drips Community Update](https://radicle.community/t/drips-community-update-december-2022/3172)

ğŸºÂ [Marketing Update](https://radicle.community/t/marketing-team-december-2022-community-update/3173/2)

ğŸ¤Â [Community & Governance Update](https://radicle.community/t/community-governance-update-december-2022/3174)

ğŸ’¸Â [Radicle Grants Program Update](https://radicle.community/t/grants-community-update-december-2022/3175)

[Link to Discord thread](https://discord.com/channels/841318878125490186/1034856602399932496) on the future of Community Calls

</Collapse>

### 2021

<Collapse title="September Community Call" date="29 September 2021">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=sTp9BxCr8uQ)
  
ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team**

- Went over details of the mail-oriented collaboration they have been experimenting with and gave progress updates to CLIs and upcoming cycle tags. You can join the mailing list [here](https://lists.sr.ht/~radicle-link/dev)!

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream** (0:05:26)

- Discussed improvements to org reliability, concurrency issues and UX, including cleaning up profiles and adding anchors to project screens. Currently accepting design contributions! Learn more [here](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-upstream/blob/master/docs/contributing.md#contributing-to-the-design).

ğŸª„Â **Alt-clients** (0:08:25)

- Demonstrated cloning capabilities without having Radicle desktop client installed and updates to ENS-based workflow command.

ğŸ’§Â **Community Tokens** (0:16:59)

- Discussed MVP implementation of community tokens. Demoed updates to fundraising workflow for projects and new features like methods of fundraising (subscription-based vs one-off sales) and Drips. Still working on Javascript & HTML front end and deploying subgraphs to The Graph. Learn more [here](https://radicle.community/t/feedback-on-nft-community-tokens/2455).

ğŸ¤Â **Community** (0:30:37)

- Introduced [Nassar](https://twitter.com/nassarhayat?lang=en) (0:35:10) to Radicle team who is focusing on adoption partnerships and growth . Announced launch of [new community blog](https://app.radicle.network/orgs/community.radicle.eth/projects/rad:git:hnrkxcktftwxbk9yshjgspqqyxnye1phzjz7y/4328ca273b1c94f4620ac7f4e38c2d22597054ee) (submissions welcome!) and reminder to keep an eye out for Radicle projects coming out of [ETHOnline](https://online.ethglobal.com/) hackathon coming up mid-October.

ğŸ›ï¸Â **Governance Updates**

- Closed applications for program lead of grants program. Choice will be announced at the next Radicle Governance Call in 2 weeks!

ğŸ’»Â **Demo: Creating Org Nodes** (0:38:43)

- Tutorial for org creation is also in the works and will be coming soon and will be posted on the mirror community blog!

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="October Community Call" date="27 October 2021">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Ok-35W-Q2zM)

ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team** (02:56)

Fintan ran through updates to their release cycles from the last month. They included updates to protocol usability, CLI improvements, and changes to the contributions and collaborative objects. You can join the mailing list for updates [here](https://lists.sr.ht/~radicle-link/dev)!

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream** (7:56)

The Upstream team will be shifting their focus towards code collaboration. Thomas explained how they are still working through replication issues and announced that the migration to Radicle link architecture is going to take a back seat. For more detail & other cool updates from Upstream check out [this post](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-october-2021-community-update/2544).

ğŸ’§**Community Tokens/Funding** (16:10)

The funding team has been working hard making improvements and testing new features to the Community Token MVP. Some highlights Andrew mentioned include gas optimization, maintainer and supporter community token benefits, custom SVG token graphics and sharing funding via â€œdripsâ€ - a way to help fund other projects or contributors who have helped develop your project. He also demoed creating a new project from start to finish. Learn more [here](https://radicle.community/t/feedback-on-nft-community-tokens/2455).

ğŸª„Â **Alt-clients** (34:13)

Sebastian presented new features they want to add to commit verification and code contribution rewards and demoed what they could look like. These updates make it easier to track and reward contributors. Shipping of these features still tbd.

ğŸ¤Â **Community & Governance** (50:25)

Abbey introduced two new members to the Governance Working Group, Shelby & bordumb. Shelby is joining as a Governance Facilitator and bordumb will be leading the [Radicle Grants Program](https://radicle.community/t/discussion-radicle-grants-program/2531/2).

She also provided updates on recent and upcoming hackathons Radicle is involved with and [partnership proposal from Akash](https://github.com/slowriot/anubis). Next focus will be ramping up Orgs with Nassar and building out the marketing team for better visibility and accessibility.

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="November Community Call" date="24 November 2021">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=5AjpFVvm9Po)

ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team** (0:56)**:**

Fintan announced updates regarding Collaborative objects, CLI ([see new README](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-link/blob/master/bins/rad/README.md)) and replication. Upcoming focus areas for the Link Team include Replication V3, tracking storage and resurrecting linked node. You can find the full list of their updates [here](https://radicle.community/t/link-november-2021-community-update/2591)! You can subscribe to their â€œAnnouncementsâ€ mailing list [here](https://lists.sr.ht/~radicle-link/announce).

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream** (09:27)**:**

Julian highlighted updates to the org explore page, improvements to the debug window and integration for ENS metadata. He ran through how they are working on improvements for replication and are hosting an internal networking party to test a few features out. You can find more updates for the Upstream team [here](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-november-2021-community-update/2594).

ğŸª„Â **Alt-Clients** (16:28)**:**

Alexis welcomed Ryan and Dave to the Upstream team. Ryan is helping work on the org node/git bridge and Dave is focusing on a new cloud offering project. The team has been focusing efforts on p2p infrastructure, improving web features for org treasuries & memberships, signed git push support and more! His Jamboard overview will also rock your world!

ğŸ’§Â **Funding -> Now Drips!** (30:31)

Andrew announced that the funding team will now become Drips (see Discord channel). They have been working hard on the MVP and hope to launch as early as Dec. 2! Skip to this section of the video to hear more behind the reason for the rebrand, further Drip updates and to see an awesome demo of the latest version of the app!

ğŸ¤Â **Community & Governance:** (48:10)

Abbey [introduced Thom](https://radicle.community/t/marketing-at-radicle/2589) who is joining the Radicle team to focus on marketing. She also reminded everyone of the [Berlin Radicle Contributor Get Together](https://radicle.community/t/berlin-radicle-contributors-get-together/2586/7)! We may have to postpone depending on Covid circumstances.

Nassar has been focused on developing & testing use cases for DevDAOs to test with market/guide outreach, providing product input value add on contribution features and has been onboarding a bunch of cool teams like Polygon and Textile! He noted there are still many challenges to on-boarding and that they are still working on solutions. Next steps include onboarding partners to Drips and continue to help with user testing.

Shelby reminded everyone of the open Snapshot poll for the

[Radicle Grants Program](https://radicle.community/t/formal-review-radicle-grants-program-v1/2548/). Keep your eyes out for the

[Removing Name Registration Fee](https://radicle.community/t/discussion-remove-name-registration-fee/2583/2) proposal moving into the Formal Review stage this week. She also reminded everyone to follow the [Radicle Governance Twitter](https://twitter.com/rad_gov) page which will be used to post important updates and reminders surrounding Radicle governance!

</Collapse>

<Collapse title="December Community Call" date="5 January 2022">

ğŸ“¹ [LINK TO CALL RECORDING](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=lMTHUPsNv10)

ğŸ”—Â **Radicle Link Team:** (0:57)

Replication V3 has been merged! Fintan shared the Link teamâ€™s roadmap proposal (found here) which includes playing with new features and improvements to existing infrastructure & tooling. The main goal is to move towards hosting Radicle Link on Radicle Link. You can find the full update [here](https://radicle.community/t/link-january-2022-community-update/2634).

ğŸŒˆÂ **Upstream:** (05:10)

Rudolfs announced updates for replication for upstream and improvements for orgs. The team is going to focus on finalizing their roadmap for 2022, which will aim to have Upstream developed on Upstream (notice the dog-fooding pattern here? ğŸ˜). They are also looking for a product owner for the team! See details on how to apply [here](https://radicle.community/t/upstream-looking-for-product-owner/2638).

ğŸª„Â **Alt-Clients:** (09:48)

Alexis presented the latest for the Radicle interface, CLI updates, Radicle client services and Radicle Cloud. Special shout out to â€œpush quorumsâ€ - which are off-chain alternatives to anchoring.

ğŸ’§Â **Drips:** (18:16)

The Drips MVP is live on Ethereum Mainnet ([see here](https://drips.radicle.network/)). You can find detailed documentation for Drips [here](https://gallant-shaw-eaf02b.netlify.app/docs/whats-a-drip.html). The team is planning a more public announcement next week so keep an eye out! They are also already looking at features for Drips V2 which include better ENS and Radicle Orgs integration and exploring layer 2 capabilities for lower transaction fees.

ğŸ¤Â **Community & Governance:** (32:12)

Abbey announced that there will be some restructuring of the community and governance teams but there are still a few details that need to be smoothed out. The rough picture at the moment will have Nassar focusing on growth, Abbey & Shelby focusing on governance and Tom focusing on marketing.

Joint reminder from Abbey, Shelby and bordumb of the upcoming on-chain vote for the Radicle Grants Program that is going live this week! The repo docs can be found [here](https://github.com/radicle-dev/radicle-grants).

Shelby discussed the recognized [delegation platform discussion](https://radicle.community/t/delegation-in-the-radicle-ecosystem/2623) that her and Abbey published before the holidays. They will continue with getting this set up in January. Also keep an eye out for a governance newsletter that you can subscribe to get email updates for all important Radicle governance items!

</Collapse>
