---
title: Delegation FAQ
---

## What is delegation?

Delegation enables all on-chain voting for Radicle‚Äôs governance decisions. Token holders can delegate voting rights to
the address (or addresses) of the token holder's choice:

- The owner‚Äôs own wallet, if they would like to vote on their own.
- Another user's wallet, if they would like the other user to vote on their behalf.

Delegation takes place on [Sybil](https://gov.radicle.network/#/delegates/radicle). After connecting a (hot) wallet
holding RAD, you are then able to delegate to either yourself or others. If you are delegating to yourself, after the
delegation process is complete you are able to participate in on-chain voting. If you are delegating to others, they
will received the amount you delegate as voting power to participate in on-chain voting.

## Why is delegation important?

According to Radicle‚Äôs governance process, there is a 4% participation requirement (of total RAD supply) for passing
Formal Reviews (Snapshot polls) and Governance Proposals (on-chain votes). Given there are 100M RAD total, for a
proposal to pass a formal review or an on-chain governance proposal, it must receive at least¬†**4M votes**. With 50% of
RAD token supply locked up in the Radicle Treasury and a large percentage of tokens locked in vesting contracts, the
actual supply that can be used in governance is much lower than total token supply. This can make it challenging to
reach not only the required 4% threshold, but also provides less opportunity for

A lot of the remaining voting power is held by Radicle‚Äôs investors. Delegation enables a redistribution of this voting
power to active Radicle community members who are passionate about partaking in the Radicle governance process. Given
investor‚Äôs $RAD holdings as a Radicle investor, they hold a lot of voting power! We would like to encourage you to use
this power by either participating in voting directly or by delegating your power to other active community members to
enable representative decision making. We understand that there may be legal or tax barriers that may disincentivize
investors to participate in governance decisions directly, however we are confident that delegation could be the
solution around these challenges.

## How do I find active community delegates?

We are aware that knowing how delegation works and knowing who to delegate too can be a confusing process. This is why
we have created platforms and process docs to try to make it as smooth as a process as possible. The Governance Working
Group recently launched the [Active Delegate Platform](https://www.notion.so/02bd9d2ca1b64e04bc92dc93ff823afb) to help
RAD holders find active community members. These delegates have committed to maintain public profile of their values
around Radicle governance and keep the community updated on their stance for each new proposal. You are, however, able
to donate to and delegate address verified on [Sybil](https://sybil.org/#/delegates/radicle).

## How does delegation work?

1. Delegation takes place on Sybil. Start by going to [Radicle‚Äôs Sybil](https://sybil.org/#/delegates/radicle) page.
   Click on the option to ‚ÄúConnect a wallet‚Äù.

![Visit Radicle on Sybil](/img/delegation_01.png)

2. Select a wallet that contains your RAD from the list shown below.

![Select a wallet](/img/delegation_02.png)

3. After connecting your wallet and your RAD holdings are confirmed, you will see an option to delegate your votes. You
   again can either delegate them to yourself if you would like to participate directly, or you can delegate to another
   address. Select the option you prefer. This step does require an on-chain action and will have a gas fee associated
   with it.

![Choose how to delegate your votes](/img/delegation_03.png)

4. The address to which you delegated your votes to is now able to use to use that voting power to help make decisions
   on active proposals. 

**NOTE:** Any delegation on Sybil for on-chain votes will be mirrored to Snapshot for off-chain votes - i.e. any RAD
that is delegated to your wallet on Sybil will be able to be able to be used to vote in off-chain Snapshot polls.

## Other questions

**üëâ¬†Are there any costs associated with delegation?**

As delegation is an on-chain action, there will be gas fees associated with delegating voting power to any address.

üëâ¬†**Can I un-delegate or re-delegate my RAD?**

Yes! You can change where where your tokens are delegated at any time. There will be gas fees associate with any
changes.

üëâ¬†**Do I have to delegate to one of the delegates on the Active Delegate Platform?**

Nope! You can delegate to any address you would like! This is simply a tool you can use to find community delegates more
easily based on their values and attitudes towards proposals.
