---
title: Transition to the DAO
---

## Decentralization of the Radicle Project

From its inception, Radicle was envisioned as a new kind of open-source project — one built, governed, and financed on
the internet. Over the past few years, the team has been deploying the technical, economic, and social foundations
necessary to achieve [this
vision](https://radicle.community/t/the-path-to-increasing-decentralization-within-radicle/2417). 

This started with the creation of the Radicle Foundation and deployment of the RAD governance token in early 2021. This
was the first step towards the creation of the DAO and handing over POWER to contributors to the project. The Foundation
funded and managed most core Radicle development and their core teams. The RAD token ensured a health treasury to start
funding development and initiatives from. An initial governance process was announced in February 2021 and has seen
various proposals pass through its process.

## Radicle Foundation -> Radicle DAO

Throughout the past year, [furthering
decentralization](https://radicle.community/t/the-next-phase-of-the-radicledao/2776) of the project has been a priority.
A large part of this work entails transitioning core team funding and coordination responsibilities of the Foundation
over to the DAO.  Four “worksreams” were formed to explore important aspects of the transition in detail. These included
*Org Design, DAO Tooling, Distribution of Ownership* and *Distribution of Influence.* All posts and updates for each
workstream can be found under the [Transition to the
DAO](https://radicle.community/c/governance/dao-transition/34) section on radicle.community. As outlined in the [Next
Phase of RadicleDAO](https://radicle.community/t/the-next-phase-of-the-radicledao/2776/16), we’ll be putting scaffolding
in place to transition Core Teams to the DAO over the next year.

The other main Orgs (sub-DAOs) of the Radicle DAO ecosystem will include the Radicle Grants Org, the Radicle Institute
Org and the Radicle Foundation Org. Radicle Grants will be responsible for funding technical proposals that support open
source initiatives that help grow the Radicle product, community, and the greater Free and Open Source Software (FOSS)
and Web3 community at large. The Radicle Institute (formerly EFG) aims to fund initiatives that drive awareness,
engagement, and adoption of the Radicle stack. The Radicle Foundation will remain at a very limited capacity as an
entity that safeguards Radicle trademarks and can be funded by the DAO (like any other contributor) to accomplish any
offline activities and anything the DAO can’t do. 

## Path Forward

The for the remainder of 2022, the Core Development Org Working Group will work together with core development teams to
scope the shifting types of roles and responsibilities and assess where what different types of decisions will need to
be made where. These changes will also require a discussion on *how* these decisions will be made within and between the
Core Development Org and teams. The consideration of changing governance needs also extends to the coordination across
the entire DAO, including figuring out how different Orgs within the DAO can coordinate with and influence each other.
This will require us to consider governance mechanisms that go beyond token governance, such as non-tokenized options,
to effectively and efficiently be able to function as a DAO. 

The definition of this emerging process has only been possible through the participation and contributions of Radicle’s
contributors. Navigating such a big change has been no small task and if we are going to truly create a sustainable and
prosperous future for the project it needed to receive input from as many perspectives as possible.
