---
id: how-it-works
title: How it Works
---

Behind every repository is a version control system—the most popular of these
being Git, created in 2005 by Linus Torvalds for the development of the Linux
kernel. Git marked the rise of distributed version control systems as
developers realized the centralized model of SVN and CVS didn't scale well with
the number of contributors. In fact, Git was only created when Linus’ free
Bitkeeper license was revoked after a Linux kernel contributor tried to reverse
engineer its networking protocols. Git brought distributed version control to
the forefront and changed the way software is developed today.

Code collaboration platforms, or "forges", started building on top of Git: they
introduced search and discovery, canonicity, and social collaboration (issues &
code review) to Git-based workflows, albeit not always following the same
distributed model that Git was designed for.

Radicle was designed to provide this same functionality while retaining Git’s
peer-to-peer nature, building on what made distributed version control so
powerful in the first place.

## Git gossips well

The earliest version of Radicle adopted a generalized approach to
replication—it wasn’t tailored to replicating collaboration artifacts or source
code and as we discovered, was ill-suited to the demands of real-world code
collaboration.

On the other hand, the current iteration is specifically designed for this use
case. The most outstanding difference is the decision to use Git as our storage
and replication layer, instead of a decentralized storage network such as IPFS.
In our experimentation with decentralized storage, we realized that replicating
Git repos on the storage layer didn't permit the use of packfiles, one of the
key protocols that makes Git useable at scale. Essentially, this approach would
make source code a second-class citizen— making it impractical to store
repositories with large histories. The reason is simple: the packfile protocol
is interactive, which means before data is transferred between two parties,
they determine exactly what needs to be sent over the wire, and the server puts
together a packfile on the fly, before sending it downstream. This incredibly
efficient approach isn't compatible with simple file storage protocols such as
IPFS, which operate on the premise that content is usually static, unlike
active code repositories that are constantly updated.

The dumb protocol is simple but a bit inefficient, and it can't handle writing
of data from the client to the server. The smart protocol is a more common
method of transferring data, but it requires a process on the remote end that
is intelligent about Git—it can read local data, figure out what the client has
and needs, and generate a custom packfile for it.

   — Git Internals

In order to keep Git's efficiency when it comes to data replication, while
offering global decentralized repository storage, we chose to design Radicle as
a peer-to-peer networking layer on top of Git's smart transfer protocol.
Radicle would take care of discovering peers, offloading the actual data
transfer to Git.

## radicle-link

Radicle Link is a peer-to-peer protocol with a generic distributed version
control backend. It aims to be general enough to be used on top of systems such
as pijul or mercurial, though it's initial implementation is focused on
supporting Git.

Radicle Link extends Git with peer-to-peer network discovery. Taking
inspiration from Secure Scuttlebutt, a peer-to-peer protocol for social
networking, data is disseminated via a process called gossip. That is,
participants in the network share and spread data they are "interested" in by
keeping redundant copies locally and sharing deltas with peers. With Radicle,
we replicate data across connected repositories according to a “social graph”
of contributors and maintainers, enabling source code and changesets to be
disseminated according to use and value: the more peers who are interested in a
certain project, the more available this project is made to the network.

## How it works

Repositories are the base unit of replication in Radicle. To publish a
repository to the network, it must first be initialized as a project. Projects
combine source code, issues and proposed changes under a single umbrella, and
carry a unique, shareable peer-to-peer identifier. The entirety of the project
data and metadata, including social artefacts such as comments, are stored
within the repository. To create a project, the owner of a repository defines a
project identity. In the background, a project.json file is created in a
predetermined disjoint branch of the repository, by convention rad/id. This
file contains important metadata such as the project name, list of maintainers,
as well as any related links.

The owner of the repository thus becomes the founder of the project and signs
the initial version of the project metadata file (project.json) with their
private key. The digest of the initial version, becomes the Project ID.

In addition to the repository, a Radicle project includes the identities of all
its maintainers: peers with designated rights over the project's identity.
Initially, the only maintainer is the founder. By adding other maintainers to
the project metadata, additional layers of trust can be introduced around the
project. Any update to the project metadata must be signed by a quorum of
maintainers, providing a cryptographically secure way to manage project state &
metadata, for example in the case of transferring ownership. The history of the
metadata file is backed by the underlying DVCS, and is verified upon
replication, ensuring it was't tampered with.

### Replication and validation

To ensure data integrity and authenticity in the peer-to-peer network, we adopt
an algorithm similar to the root file update process from The Update Framework
(TUF). In this process, peers can fetch and verify the project metadata before
replicating the latest changesets and revisions. This is important, since it
effectively allows data to be served by any peer, in a secure manner. The
physical location from which project data is fetched becomes irrelevant to the
user.

### Tracking and discovery

When a project is published to the network the specific repository or source
tree becomes identifiable by the maintainer of this tree. This allows
repositories to be addressed by a shareable URL, which is then resolved to a
physical location on the network, for the purpose of replication. This URL has
the following form:

`rad://<project-id>/<maintainer-id>`

Peers decide what data to replicate through the tracking of projects. Tracking
a project signals interest, and means to impliestracking its maintainers,
therefore replicating the data within their social graphs. In the context of a
project, maintainers of a repository may choose to track the repositories of
other owners (this is called a remote in Git terminology: a named reference to
a remote repository). If the remote repository is found to track other remotes,
the tracking repository shall also transitively track those, up to a
configurable N degrees out.

### Availability

To improve data availability, participants in the network can choose to act as
seeds. This is similar in concept to a pub in Secure Scuttlebutt: seeds are
"always-on" nodes that automatically track discovered projects, thereby
increasing the availability of these projects on the network. Since seeds may
track a large number of repositories for a given project, replicating a project
from a seed will greatly increase the connectedness of the tracking graph.
Tracking a seed will also increase the number of paths leading back to the
original upstream, ensuring that contributions can flow back up to the project
maintainers even if they come from participants not within the set of tracked
repositories of the maintainer.

### Offline and local-first

With the introduction of hosted platforms came new ‘enhanced’ workflows like
pull requests, issue tracking, and code reviews. These workflows were unique
because they were non-Git native but still tied to source code through rich
user interfaces and features. As a result, they have further defined the common
developer experience by making collaboration more than just code—the social
interactions captured in issues, code reviews and discussions are just as
important as the source code itself. However, they've also locked-in developers
to the platforms that host these workflows and their artifacts. If you lost
access to your GitHub account you'd have access to your source code, but
wouldn't have access to any of your issues, reviews, or pull requests. Even
worse, access to valuable conversations could be completely lost.

With Radicle, central servers are unnecessary for ensuring the discoverability
and availability of changesets and social artifacts. In addition, by returning
to a fully distributed model, it enables a more complete offline experience.
Not only is the source code available offline, but so is everything else.
Radicle is built to provide a convenient collaboration experience without
intermediaries or vendor lock-in.

Having Git as the nexus of replication builds on its strengths and
decentralized nature. Having issues, pull requests, comments, and reviews
locally gives developers the tools to manage and design their workflows as they
see fit. By existing as an open source protocol instead of a platform, Radicle
gives developers the freedom to collaborate without reliance on third parties.

You can follow the development of Radicle Link in the #development category of
our radicle.community forum or sign up to our mailing list.
